# [ChatGPT Guide](./README.md)

One ChatGPT Guide that you will only need for links and resources on ChatGPT and other large language models.
This guide is curated by Dr. Owen Chen from other resources.

# FAQs on ChatGPT:

## What is ChatGPT? How does it work?
ChatGPT is a general-purpose chatbot that uses artificial intelligence to generate text after a user enters a prompt, developed by tech startup OpenAI. The chatbot uses GPT-4, a large language model that uses deep learning to produce human-like text.

## When did ChatGPT get released?
November 30, 2022 is when ChatGPT was released for public use.

## What is the latest version of ChatGPT?
Both the free version of ChatGPT and the paid ChatGPT Plus are regularly updated with new GPT models. The most recent model is GPT-4.

## Is ChatGPT free?
There is a free version of ChatGPT that only requires a sign-in in addition to the paid version, ChatGPT Plus.

## Who uses ChatGPT?
Anyone can use ChatGPT! More and more tech companies and search engines are utilizing the chatbot to automate text or quickly answer user questions/concerns.

## What is the difference between ChatGPT and a chatbot?
A chatbot can be any software/system that holds dialogue with you/a person but doesn’t necessarily have to be AI-powered. For example, there are chatbots that are rules-based in the sense that they’ll give canned responses to questions.


ChatGPT is AI-powered and utilizes LLM technology to generate text after a prompt.

## Can ChatGPT write essays?
Yes.

## Can ChatGPT commit libel?
Due to the nature of how these models work, they don’t know or care whether something is true, only that it looks true. That’s a problem when you’re using it to do your homework, sure, but when it accuses you of a crime you didn’t commit, that may well at this point be libel.

We will see how handling troubling statements produced by ChatGPT will play out over the next few months as tech and legal experts attempt to tackle the fastest moving target in the industry.

## Does ChatGPT have an app?
There is not an app available for iPhone or Android, but users have options to enable the chatbot on their mobile devices via their browser or a third-party app that uses ChatGPT’s public API.

## What is the ChatGPT character limit?
ChatGPT has a limit of 4096 tokens for a combined input and output.  Also, the output alone has a maximum limit of 2048 tokens, which roughly translates to around 1000-1500 words depending on the complexity of the language and the specific tokens used. 

## Does ChatGPT have an API?
Yes, it was released March 1, 2023.

## What are some sample everyday uses for ChatGPT?
Everyday examples include programing, scripts, email replies, listicles, blog ideas, summarization, etc.

## What are some advanced uses for ChatGPT?
Advanced use examples include debugging code, programming languages, scientific concepts, complex problem solving, etc.

## How good is ChatGPT at writing code?
It depends on the nature of the program. While ChatGPT can write workable Python code, it can’t necessarily program an entire app’s worth of code. That’s because ChatGPT lacks context awareness — in other words, the generated code isn’t always appropriate for the specific context in which it’s being used.

## Can you save a ChatGPT chat?
Yes. OpenAI allows users to save chats in the ChatGPT interface, stored in the sidebar of the screen. There are no built-in sharing features yet.

## Are there alternatives to ChatGPT?
Yes. There are multiple AI-powered chatbot competitors such as Together, Google’s Bard and Anthropic’s Claude, and developers are creating open source alternatives.

See this [ChatGPT Alternatives](./alternatives.md) for details.

## What controversies have surrounded ChatGPT?
CNET found itself in the midst of controversy after Futurism reported the publication was publishing articles under a mysterious byline completely generated by AI. The private equity company that owns CNET, Red Ventures, was accused of using ChatGPT for SEO farming, even if the information was incorrect.


Several major school systems and colleges, including New York City Public Schools, have banned ChatGPT from their networks and devices. They claim that the AI impedes the learning process by promoting plagiarism and misinformation, a claim that not every educator agrees with.

There have also been cases of ChatGPT accusing individuals of false crimes.

Recently, Discord announced that it had integrated OpenAI’s technology into its bot named Clyde where two users tricked Clyde into providing them with instructions for making the illegal drug methamphetamine (meth) and the incendiary mixture napalm.

## Where can I find examples of ChatGPT prompts?
Several marketplaces host and provide ChatGPT prompts, either for free or for a nominal fee. One is PromptBase. Another is ChatX. More launch every day.

## Can ChatGPT be detected?
Poorly. Several tools claim to detect ChatGPT-generated text, but in our tests, they’re inconsistent at best.

## Are ChatGPT chats public?
No. But OpenAI recently disclosed a bug, since fixed, that exposed the titles of some users’ conversations to other people on the service.

## Who owns the copyright on ChatGPT-created content or media?
The user who requested the input from ChatGPT is the copyright owner.

## What lawsuits are there surrounding ChatGPT?
None specifically targeting ChatGPT. But OpenAI is involved in at least one lawsuit that has implications for AI systems trained on publicly available data, which would touch on ChatGPT.

## Are there issues regarding plagiarism with ChatGPT?
Yes. Text-generating AI models like ChatGPT have a tendency to regurgitate content from their training data.


<hr>

## [ChatGPT Guide](./README.md)
### [What is ChatGPT and How to get started?](./intro.md)
### [Coding with ChatGPT](./code.md)
### [ChatGPT FAQs](./faq.md)
### [ChatGPT News](./news.md)
### [ChatGPT Prompt Templates](./prompts.md)
### [ChatGPT Technical Guide](./techguide.md)
### [ChatGPT Resources](./resources.md)
### [ChatGPT Alterantives](./alternatives.md)
### [ChatGPT Papers](./papers.md)

<hr>

### [License: MIT License](LICENSE)

### Last Updated by: Owen Chen, Ph.D.
### Date: April 25, 2023